.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH OPERA@@{USUFFIX} 1 "@@{TIME:%B %Y}"
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
opera@@{CONF:suffix} \- @@{S_ONELINE_DESC}
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B opera@@{SUFFIX}
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ URL .\|.\|.]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Opera is a graphical Web browser available on several platforms. The
desktop version described in this manual page runs on GNU/Linux and
FreeBSD. Versions for Windows and MacOS X are also available.
@@ifdef opera-next

Opera Next is the testing branch of Opera. Use it only if you want to
test Opera versions still in development. Otherwise you should use the
stable version available in packages named
.B opera
.
@@elifdef opera-labs
@@{S_PRODUCT} is an experimental release to showcase a feature in
development. Use it only if you want to test this feature. Otherwise
you should use the stable version available in packages named
.B opera
.
@@endif
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.PP
These support both double and single dash as prefix.
Several other options are also supported, notably including many
generic X Toolkit options; see
.B \-\^\-help
output for details.
.TP
.BI \-\^\-personaldir " path"
.TP
.BI \-\^\-pd " path"
Use
.I path
as personal configuration directory (ignore default location).
.TP
.BI \-\^\-remote " command"
Send
.I command
to an existing Opera window.  See "REMOTE COMMANDS" section below.
.TP
.B \-\^\-nomail
Start Opera without internal e-mail client (also disables chat and
newsfeeds).
.TP
.B \-\^\-nosession
Do not open a saved window session or homepage.
.TP
.B \-\^\-noshape
Suppress X shape-extension for widgets, to make their full underlying
rectangle visible (useful for debug).
.TP
.B \-\^\-nowin
Do not open any document windows.
.TP
.B \-\^\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h "\fR,\fP " "\-\^\-help"
Print option summary and exit.
.SH "REMOTE COMMANDS"
Since commands include parentheses, which have special meaning to the
shell, it is important to enclose remote commands in quotes, like
.B "\-\^\-remote 'openURL()'"
so as to prevent the shell from interpreting the parentheses.
In the following,
.I destination
is one of
.B new-window
for a new window,
.B new-page
for a new page (or tab) or
.B background-page
for a new background page (opened in an inactive new tab).
.TP
.B openURL()
Open "Go to" dialog box prompting for input.
.TP
.BI openURL( URL )
Open
.I URL
in active window.
.TP
.BI openURL( URL , destination )
open
.I URL
in
.I destination
window, tab or background.
.TP
.BI openFile( destination )
Open file selector in
.I destination
window or page (background not supported).
.TP
.B openM2(new-window)
Open Opera mail client list view in a new window.
.TP
.B openComposer(new-window)
Open Opera mail composer in a new window.
.TP
.BI addBookmark( URL )
Add
.I URL
to bookmark list.
.TP
.B raise()
Raises the Opera window.
.TP
.B lower()
Lowers the Opera window.
.SH "FILES AND DIRECTORIES"
.TP
.I @@{ABS:UNIX_LIB}
Installation directory for Opera binaries, with a separate
.I plugins
sub-directory for plugins.
.TP
.I @@{ABS:RESOURCES}
Opera shared resource directory.  Contains assorted data files.
.TP
.I @@{ETC}/operaprefs_default.ini
Default settings for Opera configurations; may be overridden by the
.I operaprefs.ini
in a user's personal configuration directory.
.TP
.I @@{ETC}/operaprefs_fixed.ini
System settings for Opera configurations; cannot be overridden by users.
.TP
.I ~/.opera@@{SUFFIX}
The default personal configuration directory.
.SH "CONFIGURATION DIRECTORY"
.PP
Private data for each user is stored in a personal configuration directory.
By default this is
.I ~/.opera@@{SUFFIX}
but you can override this by setting
.I OPERA_PERSONALDIR
(for example in your login shell's standard configuration file) to a
location of your choosing; or by passing a chosen directory with the
.B \-\^\-personaldir
command-line option.  For the most part it is best to access the files
in this directory via the preference and appearance dialogs - accessed
either from the
.B Tools
menu of the Opera user interface or via a keyboard shortcut: type
.BR Alt + P
for the main preferences dialog,
.BR Shift + F12
for the appearance dialog or simply
.B F12
for a menu of the more commonly set basic preferences from each.
(You can control Opera entirely from the keyboard, including any of
these dialogs; to dismiss a dialog, use the
.B Esc
key.)
.PP
Most files in the directory have names which express their functions.
Many of them have backups saved in
.I *.bak
files.  The file
.I operaprefs.ini
in this directory records most user preferences.  Entries in it can
override the locations of some of the other files; this description
relates each to its default location.  A fuller account of the
.I operaprefs.ini
file may be found at
.BR http://www.opera.com/support/usingopera/operaini/ .
Bookmarks are recorded in
.IR bookmarks.adr ,
and global browsing history is recorded in
.IR global.dat ;
browsing histories for individual tabs are a part of the session state
saved as files in
.IR sessions .
In this sub-directory, the state of the current session is saved in
.IR autosave.win ;
other sessions may be saved (see the Sessions sub-menu of the main
File menu) to other files in this directory.  It is prudent to save
such a named session before starting up Opera with a radically new
version (especially if it is a beta release).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.I OPERA_PERSONALDIR
Override default personal configuration directory
.TP
.I OPERA_STRICT_FILE_PERMISSIONS
Use owner-only permissions for all files created (as if by
.I umask
077) if set to YES, TRUE (case insensitively matched) or 1.  Otherwise
honour
.I umask
setting in the normal way.
.TP
.I OPERA_SYSTEM_UNAME
Override the operating system name. If set, Opera will use this
value as part of the User Agent string instead of trying to detect the
operating system.
.SH AUTHOR
This program was written by @@{S_VENDOR}
.B http://www.opera.com/.
Please refer to
.B @@{ABS:UNIX_LICENSE}/@@{LICENSE_FILE}
for more information.
.SH "BUG REPORTS"
If you find a bug in Opera please report it to
.B https://bugs.opera.com/wizard/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Output from
.B opera@@{SUFFIX} "\-\^\-help"
for a fuller list of supported options.
.PP
.B http://www.opera.com/docs/switches/
for an on-line account of the supported options.
.PP
.B http://help.opera.com/
for more general on-line help (also available via the Help menu on
Opera's main toolbar).
